---
    title: 0004 Store/Display images in WebP format.
    adr:
        author: Oleksandr Prokhorenko
        created: 30-Nov-2023
        status:  proposed
    tags:
        - images
---

## Context

As we develop our new cross-platform application (supporting Web, iOS, Android, macOS, Windows, and Linux),
we face a decision regarding the choice of image format.
The selection of an image format is critical for optimizing performance,
load times, and the overall user experience across diverse platforms.

## Assumptions

* The WebP format will be adequately supported across all targeted platforms.
* Adoption of WebP will yield significant benefits in terms of performance and user experience.
* Our development and design teams will adapt to using WebP without significant challenges.

## Decision

We propose to adopt WebP as our standard image format for both web and native applications.
This decision is based on several advantages of WebP over JPG and PNG:

* **Superior Compression**: WebP provides better compression than JPG and PNG,
allowing images to be significantly smaller in size without a noticeable loss in quality.
This leads to faster loading times and reduced bandwidth usage, which is particularly beneficial for mobile users.

* **Support for Transparency**: Unlike JPG and capable of more efficient transparency handling than PNG,
WebP supports transparent backgrounds, which is essential for various design elements.

* **Improved Performance**: The smaller file size of WebP directly translates to quicker image loading and rendering,
contributing to a smoother user experience.

* **Versatility**: WebP is versatile, supporting both lossy and lossless compression,
making it suitable for a wide range of image types – from photographic images to graphical designs.

* **Future-Proofing**: As a modern format, WebP is increasingly supported by new browsers and platforms,
making it a future-proof choice.

## Risks

* Some older browsers or platforms might have limited or no support for WebP, necessitating fallback solutions.
* The development team may need to overcome a learning curve associated with handling a new image format.

## Consequences

* Enhanced application performance across all platforms due to reduced image sizes.
* Improved loading times, especially critical for mobile users with limited bandwidth.
* Potential for initial development overhead as tools and processes are adapted for WebP.

## More Information

* [WebP Comparison with Other Formats](https://developers.google.com/speed/webp/docs/webp_study)
* [Browser Support for WebP](https://caniuse.com/webp)
